Add standalone executables content (#792)
MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr: articles/quickstarts/qrng.md

### Q# operation code

1. Replace the contents of the Program.qs file with the following code:

>     ```qsharp

Reviewer: As discussed offline, we should make sure this works with code in the samples repository rather than embedding directly into the article. See https://github.com/microsoft/Quantum/pull/338 for @bettinaheim's work towards doing so.

Author: Updated. Please take a look if it is okay.

Reviewer: It looks like the source code that's getting pulled in is from master:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31516/80620605-0d3b2d00-89fb-11ea-80a9-7c79fb052e3e.png)

We'll want that for the final PR, of course, but it's hard to test rendering that way. As discussed offline, you can **temporarily** modify https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr/blob/build/0.11.2004.2825/.openpublishing.publish.config.json#L75 to point to the `feature/standalone` branch of the samples repo to get a test rendering.

Reviewer: Ah, sorry, I had missed that the code here is copied-and-pasted. Please make sure to use something like this to embed code from the samples repository instead:

```
:::code language="qsharp" source="~/quantum/samples/getting-started/qrng/Qrng.qs" range="3-14":::
```

    namespace Quantum {

>         open Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Convert;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Math;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Measurement;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Canon;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic;
```

        operation QuantumRandomNumberGenerator() : Result {
            using(qubit = Qubit())  { // Allocate a qubit.
                H(qubit);             // Put the qubit to superposition. It now has a 50% chance of being 0 or 1.

>                 let r = M(v);     // Measure the qubit value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>                 Reset(qubit);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>                 return r;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            return MResetZ(q);  // Measure the qubit value, reset it, and return the result.
```

### Q# operation code

1. Replace the contents of the Program.qs file with the following code:

    ```qsharp
    namespace Quantum {
        open Microsoft.Quantum.Convert;
        open Microsoft.Quantum.Math;
        open Microsoft.Quantum.Measurement;
        open Microsoft.Quantum.Canon;
        open Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic;

        operation QuantumRandomNumberGenerator() : Result {
            using(qubit = Qubit())  { // Allocate a qubit.
                H(qubit);             // Put the qubit to superposition. It now has a 50% chance of being 0 or 1.

>                 return MResetZ(q);  // Measure the qubit value, reset it, and return the result.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                return MResetZ(q);    // Measure the qubit value, reset it, and return the result.
```

Since the outcome of the measurement is completely random, we have obtained a random bit. We can call this operation several times to create integers. For example, if we call the operation three times to obtain three random bits, we can build random 3-bit numbers (that is, a random number between 0 and 7).

## Creating a complete random number generator

Now that we have a Q# operation that generates random bits, we can use it to build a complete quantum random number generator. We can use the Q# command line applications or use a host program. 

To create the full Q# command line application, add the following entry point to your Q# program: 
    ```qsharp
        @EntryPoint()
        operation Main() : Int {
            let max = 10;
            Message($"Random number between 0 and {max}: ");  
        
            let nBits = Floor(Log(IntAsDouble(max))/LogOf2() + 1.);
    
            mutable bits = new Result[0];
            for(bit in 1 .. nBits) {
                set bits += [SampleQuantumRandomNumberGenerator()];
            }
    
            let output = ResultArrayAsInt(bits); 
            return output <= max ? output | Main();
        }
    ```

>  ### [Q# command line applications with Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code](#tab/tabid-qsharp)

Reviewer 3: The number of Tabs is now ridiculous. I think we should just keep the instructions on how to ready using the standalone.

Reviewer 4: yeah, gets ugly. What should we do here @KittyYeungQ ?

Author: Isn't this outdated and resolved?

Reviewer 4: Nop, the tab still contains the 4 versions ("Outdated" usually don't mean resolved, but just that a new commit modified the referenced file")

In the Bloch sphere, the north pole represents the classical value **0** and the south pole represents the classical value **1**. Any superposition can be represented by a point on the sphere (represented by an arrow). The closer the end of the arrow to a pole the higher the probability the qubit collapses into the classical value assigned to that pole when measured. For example, the qubit state represented by the red arrow below has a higher probability of giving the value **0** if we measure it.

> <img src="~/media/qrng-Bloch.png" width="175">

Reviewer: Why was the alt-text removed here? We should make sure to preserve alt-text if possible, as that's a critical accessibility feature.

We can use this representation to visualize what the code is doing:

* First we start with a qubit initalizated in the state **0** and apply `H` to create a superposition in which the probabilities for **0** and **1** are the same.

> <img src="~/media/qrng-H.png" width="450">

Reviewer: Similarly here, it would be good to keep alt-text if possible.

* Then we measure the qubit and save the output:

<img src="~/media/qrng-meas.png" width="450">

Since the outcome of the measurement is completely random, we have obtained a random bit. We can call this operation several times to create integers. For example, if we call the operation three times to obtain three random bits, we can build random 3-bit numbers (that is, a random number between 0 and 7).

>  ## Creating a complete random number generator using the Q# standalone executables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ## Creating a complete random number generator using Q# standalone executables
```

> Now that we have a Q# operation that generates random bits, we can use it to build a complete quantum random number generator using the standalone executables. The executable will run the operation or function marked with the `@EntryPoint()` attribute on a simulator, resource estimator, or submit it to Azure Quantum, depending on the project configuration and command-line options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have a Q# operation that generates random bits, we can use it to build a complete quantum random number generator.
The executable will run the operation or function marked with the `@EntryPoint()` attribute on a simulator, resource estimator, or submit it to Azure Quantum, depending on the project configuration and command-line options.
```
If we're mentioning Azure Quantum here, then this **should not** go to master, since that is not yet live. I would strongly suggest keeping Azure Quantum content on a separate feature branch.

    ```

>     namespace Qrng {

Reviewer: The whitespacing here is inconsistent with how we've formatted Q# elsewhere, in that namespace statements should be followed by an increase in the indent level.

    open Microsoft.Quantum.Convert;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Math;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Measurement;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Canon;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic;

>     operation SampleQuantumRandomNumberGenerator() : Result {

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    operation SampleQuantumRandomNumberGenerator() : Result {
```

        using (q = Qubit())  {  // Allocate a qubit.
            H(q);               // Put the qubit to superposition. It now has a 50% chance of being 0 or 1.
            return MResetZ(q);  // Measure the qubit value.
        }
    }

>     //This step can be run directly on a quantum hardware that provides random outputs of 0s or 1s. Remove the comments when the quantum hardware is available for testing.

Reviewer: As above, this should not go on to master as is, since it is not yet ready for publishing to live.

    //@EntryPoint()
    //operation Main() : Result {
    //    Message($"Random bit: ");        
    //    return SampleQuantumRandomNumberGenerator();
    //}
  
    //This step makes a randomly generated 0s or 1s into random integers from 0 to 10. 
    @EntryPoint()

>     operation Main() : Int {

Reviewer: Operations should always be named as verbs, following the Q# style guide.
```suggestion
    operation RunMain() : Int {
```

        let max = 10;
        Message($"Random number between 0 and {max}: ");  
        

>         let nBits = Floor(Log(IntAsDouble(max))/LogOf2() + 1.);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        let nBits = Floor(Log(IntAsDouble(max)) / LogOf2() + 1.);
```

    
        mutable bits = new Result[0];

>         for(bit in 1 .. nBits) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        for (bit in 1..nBits) {
```
I'd also suggest that this would be a good place for a new library operation to repeatedly call an operation as per @tcNickolas' feature request.

We can use this representation to visualize what the code is doing:

> * First we start with a qubit initalizated in the state **0** and apply `H` to create a superposition in which the probabilities for **0** and **1** are the same.

Author: ```suggestion
* First we start with a qubit initialized in the state **0** and apply `H` to create a superposition in which the probabilities for **0** and **1** are the same.
```

<img src="~/media/qrng-H.png" width="450" alt="Preparing a qubit in superposition">

* Then we measure the qubit and save the output:

<img src="~/media/qrng-meas.png" width="450" alt="Measuring a qubit and saving the output">

Since the outcome of the measurement is completely random, we have obtained a random bit. We can call this operation several times to create integers. For example, if we call the operation three times to obtain three random bits, we can build random 3-bit numbers (that is, a random number between 0 and 7).

## Creating a complete random number generator

> Now that we have a Q# operation that generates random bits, we can use it to build a complete quantum random number generator. We cans use the Q# standalone executable or use a host program. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we have a Q# operation that generates random bits, we can use it to build a complete quantum random number generator. We can use the Q# standalone executable or use a host program. 
```

Author: Because currently we are showing the examples in all these options. Do you think we should remove the code samples with the host program options? I think it is good that we show them side by side once.

> Now that we have a Q# operation that generates random bits, we can use it to build a complete quantum random number generator. We cans use the Q# standalone executable or use a host program. 

Author: ```suggestion
Now that we have a Q# operation that generates random bits, we can use it to build a complete quantum random number generator. We can use the Q# command line applications or use a host program. 
```

>  ### [Q# standalone executable with Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code](#tab/tabid-qsharp)

Author: ```suggestion
 ### [Q# command line applications with Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code](#tab/tabid-qsharp)
```

>  ### [Q# standalone executable with Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code](#tab/tabid-qsharp)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 ### [Q# command line application with Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code](#tab/tabid-qsharp)
```

>  The executable will run the operation or function marked with the `@EntryPoint()` attribute on a simulator, resource estimator, depending on the project configuration and command-line options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The executable will run the operation or function marked with the `@EntryPoint()` attribute on a simulator or resource estimator, depending on the project configuration and command-line options.
```

 :::code language="python" source="~/quantum/samples/getting-started/qrng/Qrng.qs" range="3-33":::

> In Visual Studio, simply do F5 to execute the script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Visual Studio, simply press Ctrl + F5 to execute the script.
```

> In VS Code, Build the Program.qs the first time by typing the below in the terminal: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In VS Code, build the Program.qs the first time by typing the below in the terminal: 
```

```
dotnet build
```

> For subsequent runs, no need to build it again:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For subsequent runs, there is no need to build it again. To run it, type the following command and press enter:
```

<img src="~/media/qrng-H.png" width="450" alt="Preparing a qubit in superposition">

* Then we measure the qubit and save the output:

<img src="~/media/qrng-meas.png" width="450" alt="Measuring a qubit and saving the output">

Since the outcome of the measurement is completely random, we have obtained a random bit. We can call this operation several times to create integers. For example, if we call the operation three times to obtain three random bits, we can build random 3-bit numbers (that is, a random number between 0 and 7).

> ## Creating a complete random number generator

Reviewer 2: Actually, where I thought I had seem the section on the actual entry point at some point, but I no longer see it in this diff?

Author: You meant `@EntryPoint()`?

Reviewer 2: This won't work as is.

Reviewer: The API doc for the `EntryPoint` attribute should be up shortly with the uid `microsoft.quantum.core.entrypoint` (see https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr/blob/build/0.11.2004.2825/api/qsharp/microsoft.quantum.core.entrypoint.yml).

Reviewer 2: I was looking for the code for the entry point (the entry point implementation). @cgranade I didn't see anywhere where it would be pulled in from the Samples repo, but only saw the code section in this doc that only contains SampleQuantumRandomNumberGenerator. I hence edited that to be correct, and also added a code section for the actual entry point. If it is indeed pulling in the code from Samples now (yay), then should all code sections be removed? Chris, could you take a look at whether the current state makes sense or edit as needed?

Author: Can you do the same for the Grover's search? We don't know if the Python compiling will still work with the Entry Point code added.

> Now that we have a Q# operation that generates random bits, we can use it to build a complete quantum random number generator. We can use the Q# command line applications or use a host program. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we have a Q# operation that generates random bits, we can use it to build a complete quantum random number generator. We can use the Q# command line applications for that. 
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

To create the full Q# command line application, add the following entry point to your Q# program: 
```qsharp
        @EntryPoint()
        operation Main() : Int {
            let max = 10;
            Message($"Random number between 0 and {max}: ");  
        
            let nBits = Floor(Log(IntAsDouble(max))/LogOf2() + 1.);
    
            mutable bits = new Result[0];
            for(bit in 1 .. nBits) {
                set bits += [SampleQuantumRandomNumberGenerator()];
            }
    
            let output = ResultArrayAsInt(bits); 
            return output <= max ? output | Main();
        }
```
```

Reviewer: @bettinaheim, that should be in the relevant sample, no? Looks like https://github.com/microsoft/Quantum/blob/71f3068ffd62f12351341ed53f9443db520d13eb/samples/getting-started/qrng/Qrng.qs#L18-L32 is the relevant range, such that ``::code language="qsharp" source="~/quantum/samples/getting-started/qrng/Qrng.qs" range="18-32":::` should do the trick here.

<img src="~/media/qrng-H.png" width="450" alt="Preparing a qubit in superposition">

* Then we measure the qubit and save the output:

<img src="~/media/qrng-meas.png" width="450" alt="Measuring a qubit and saving the output">

Since the outcome of the measurement is completely random, we have obtained a random bit. We can call this operation several times to create integers. For example, if we call the operation three times to obtain three random bits, we can build random 3-bit numbers (that is, a random number between 0 and 7).

> ## Creating a complete random number generator

Reviewer 3: I am not sure this is needed at all for this sample. Since the goal of this sample is just to show a minimal Q# example to get people started, adding a "complete" example may just confuse users.

Reviewer 4: Yeah, I agree, this was one of the conversations we have when creating it, but we wanted to also have an example of how to use the host programs. Maybe we can just add another article for the complete version, and link to it in the "What's next?" link .

Now that we have a Q# operation that generates random bits, we can use it to build a complete quantum random number generator. We can use the Q# command line applications or use a host program. 

To create the full Q# command line application, add the following entry point to your Q# program: 

> ```qsharp

Reviewer 3: If we do go ahead and keep this, we should move this code to the samples repo.

        @EntryPoint()
        operation Main() : Int {
            let max = 10;
            Message($"Random number between 0 and {max}: ");  
        
            let nBits = Floor(Log(IntAsDouble(max))/LogOf2() + 1.);
    
            mutable bits = new Result[0];
            for(bit in 1 .. nBits) {
                set bits += [SampleQuantumRandomNumberGenerator()];
            }
    
            let output = ResultArrayAsInt(bits); 
            return output <= max ? output | Main();

>         }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        }
   ```
```
